Welcome to the Codec Selection video.
Randy put together a nice little group of
slides here for you to kinda talk about
the codecs that are gonna be
involved in our venture into VoIP.
>> Right, so as promised,
we'll be talking more about codecs.
>> We actually have a whole
module on codecs, I think.
>> Right, yeah, we will.
>> Yeah.
>> We'll,
more like a broad overview of the [LAUGH].
>> No, yeah, of course, yeah.
>> So, codecs basically,
as mentioned before,
encoding decoding digital data signal or
some kind of stream.
Some examples we have are FFmpeg, DivX,
or H.264, all these codecs are used.
You might have heard about them,
you're might have heard of DivX.
>> Yeah, DivX is a big one.
Yeah, there's also standard codecs
that come with each kind of
individual operating system, so to say.
Android has a specific set of codecs that
they like to include in their source.
And then you have other codecs,
like with Ubuntu,
that they like to include in their source,
for example, GStreamer.
But, yeah.
>> So yeah, but then you sort of wonder
why can't we just use one codec for
encoding, decoding,
why do we need multiple ones?
And that's simply because, depends on what
kind of project you wanna take, right?
So, if you have, mostly the argument
with lossy versus lossless compression.
So, you have lossless compression,
basically it means the picture, or audio,
or video quality is really, really high,
but that takes up a ton of space.
Blu-ray DVDs,
has 30 to 50 gigs for one movie.
How many movies can you store on
a compter if you were to do that,
right, on a normal computer?
>> Yeah, I think compressed movies
are sometimes what, five gigs?
>> Yeah, honestly, like I said, it depends
on if you want the best quality you can
get or sacrifice some quality but
have more, be able to store more.
And also, that ties into video streaming,
so if you wanna see super high streamed,
like Netflix videos,
you need the different kind of codec
to make sure you'll be able to still
stream it at a decent speed, at least.
And then, we also mentioned,
or if you have trouble maybe seeing video
or listening to some kind of audio,
it's probably because you're
missing some kind of codec.
>> Yeah.
>> Because we encountered that problem
once or twice on using Ubuntu, I believe.
>> During the release of Ubuntu, actually
during the release of the DragonBoard,
there was a codec that we wanted and
it wasn't included.
So, we went on the 96 Board forums,
which you should be registered for, and
we expressed our concern and
they included it.
So, they do listen everything.
It's a very open community,
a very nice community.
And if you're ever encountering something,
hit those forms up and
get something going.
>> And then here, I wanted to expand
a bit more on codecs versus containers.
So, remember codecs aren't containers.
And then remember containers are just
the file extension such as .avi, or .mov,
or .mp4, .wav, etc.
And so, containers just have audio or
video codecs,
as well as whatever other data needed for
that little container.
So, a container's just a bundle.
So maybe you have subtitles, or some
kind of other necessary information for
playback or recording.
And finally,
the sections labeled Codec Selection.
So, which one do you wanna use?
I also mentioned this earlier,
so it depends.
Do you want lossless compression or
do you want lossy compression,
where you have large
file versus small file?
It also depends because if
you have very slow Internet,
you're probably gonna have to use
some kind of lossy compression,
because there's no way you will send
a 30 gig file within a decent timeframe.
>> 30 gig file within a two hour movie.
[CROSSTALK] It's possible.
>> That's gonna take
a while on a slow Internet.
>> Yeah.
>> And some other factors is
the resolution of your files,
how many bits you wanna use to encode or
decode, stuff like that.
>> Yeah, but I guess the point
right there, is right, so
you use one codec to encode something?
>> Mm-hm, and
use the same one to decode it.
>> Yeah.
>> Basically it.
>> Yeah, and so,
you're actually gonna see our esteemed
Professor Harnoth Garadodgi come
back in one of our modules here,
where he will be going over codecs
among several other things.
So I think that's in module three,
not the next.
Yeah, so two modules from now,
you'll get a chance to check him out and
hear some really cool stuff about codecs.
He's actually worked in that field for
quite a while, and not
necessarily the codec field but this whole
compression, digital signal processing.
He's worked in that field for a long time.
So, he'll have some really interesting
stuff to talk to you all about and
hope you stick around for it.
So, that being said, I guess we're good.
>> Yeah.
>> With the codec section,
we'll see you in next videos.